# Customization
Here we will customize our setup, meaning that this is probably the part that you should follow the least as it is purely opinionated.

## Setting Grub Theme
To create a theme for your grub you must first download the theme then set the grub configuration to use that theme. Below will be an example of how to set this up using [SiriusAhu/Persona_5_Royal_Grub_Themes](https://www.gnome-look.org/p/2122684).

First download and extract the tar.gz release file:
```
wget -c https://github.com/SiriusAhu/Persona_5_Royal_Grub_Themes/releases/download/v1.0/joker.tar.gz -P /boot/grub/themes
tar -xvzf /boot/grub/themes/joker.tar.gz -C /boot/grub/themes --no-same-owner
```

Now we just set the value for `GRUB_THEME` in `/etc/default/grub` to the path we just used. `/boot/grub/themes/joker/theme.txt` Make sure to uncomment the line and run `grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg` like before. Once done simply reboot.

## Customize pacman
### Ilovecandy
To make the pacman appear on downloads add the line `ILoveCandy` right below `# Misc Options`

## Graphics and WM/DE
These are the GUI enabling libraries to get out of the terminal prison. We will be installing `wayland` although you could also use xorg which is older and more stable. For our window manager we will use `hyprland`. This will use the following [repo](https://github.com/SolDoesTech/HyprV4) for setting up hyprland quickly, but we will not use the script, instead we will be installing the tools as we go and only when needed.

### Install Hyprland
We are going to install 3 things here real quick: hyprland, kitty and gtk3. hyprland will be our DE, which will install and use wayland, kitty is the default terminal software. gtk3 will be needed in order to open kitty on hyprland. Once you are done you can run `Hyprland`.

```
sudo pacman -S hyprland kitty gtk3
Hyprland
```

You should get a simple page with a warning message on how to open kitty and exit hyprland. Using super+q open kitty so you can edit the `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` file. Set the following values in their respective variables objects this will be our initial hyprland config for getting started.

```
autogenerated = 0
...
general {
    gaps_in = 2
    gaps_in = 5

    border_size = 3
    ...
}

decoration {
    rounding = 3
    ...
}
```

### Setup for nvidia
Install the following packages only if you need nvidia support. The second command does not NEED yay but it does need to be installed from the aur.

```
pacman -S linux-headers nvidia-dkms qt5-wayland qt5ct libva
yay libva-nvidia-driver-git # needs to install from aur
```

Once installed edit `/etc/mkinitcpio.conf` and modify the `MODULES` variable to `MODULES=(nvidia nvidia_modeset nvidia_uvm nvidia_drm)` then generate a new initramfs image with the following cmd.

```
sudo mkinitcpio --config /etc/mkinitcpio.conf --generate /boot/initramfs-custom.img
```

### More packages for hyprland
The following list would be installed. There will be a folder for config changes for each of these when needed.

```
sddm-git            # Login (display) manager Git version to avoid bugs
waybar              # Top menu bar for wayland
ttf-font-awesome    # For waybar font
swaybg              # background setter
waypaper            # Frontend for swaybg
wofi                # Application menu
firefox             # Or navigator of your choice
swaync              # Notification daemon
spotify             # Music player
ranger              # Vim-like terminal file manager
wallset             # Background manager which allows videos.
```

### Audio and video dependencies
Below are the audio/video servers needed to play music.

```
pipewire            # audio/video server
pipewire-alsa       # pipewire alsa client
pipewire-audio      # pipewire audio client
pipewire-jack       # pipewire jack client
pipewire-pulse      # pipewire pulseaudio client
pavucontrol         # Control gui for pipewire
helvum (optional)   # Patch bay for pipewire, audio routing and filtering
```
